Both `override` and `final` can appear only in declaration in a virtual function. And both key words can be used in the same function declaration, but whether it is useful to use them both depends on situations.

Take the following code as an example:

    #include <iostream>
    using std::cout; using std::endl;

    struct B {
      virtual void f1() { cout << "B::f1() "; }
      virtual void f2() { cout << "B::f2() "; }
      virtual void f3() { cout << "B::f3() "; }
      virtual void f6() final { cout << "B::f6() "; }
      void f7() { cout << "B::f7() "; }
      void f8() { cout << "B::f8() "; }
      void f9() { cout << "B::f9() "; }
    };

    struct D : B {
      void f1() override { cout << "D::f1() "; }
      void f2() final { cout << "D::f2() "; }
      void f3() override final { cout << "D::f3() "; }  // need not have override
      // should have override, otherwise add new virtual function
      virtual void f4() final { cout << "D::f4() "; }
      //virtual void f5() override final;  // Error, no virtual function in base class
      //void f6(); // Error, override a final virtual function
      void f7() { cout << "D::f7() "; }
      virtual void f8() { cout << "D::f8() "; }
      //void f9() override;  // Error, override a nonvirtual function 
    };

    int main() {
      B b; D d;
      B *bp = &b, *bd = &d; D *dp = &d;
      bp->f1(); bp->f2(); bp->f3(); bp->f6(); bp->f7(); bp->f8(); bp->f9(); cout << endl;
      bd->f1(); bd->f2(); bd->f3(); bd->f6(); bd->f7(); bd->f8(); bd->f9(); cout << endl;
      dp->f1(); dp->f2(); dp->f3(); dp->f6(); dp->f7(); dp->f8(); dp->f9(); cout << endl;
      return 0;
    }

The output is

    B::f1() B::f2() B::f3() B::f6() B::f7() B::f8() B::f9()
    D::f1() D::f2() D::f3() B::f6() B::f7() B::f8() B::f9()
    D::f1() D::f2() D::f3() B::f6() D::f7() D::f8() B::f9()

1. Compare `f1()` and `f6()`. We know that `override` and `final` is indepent sematically.

  - `override` means the function is overriding a virtual function in its base class. See `f1()` and `f3()`.
  - `final` means the function cannot be overrided by its derived class. (But the function itself need not override a base class virtual function.) See `f6()` and `f4()`.

2. Compare `f2()` and `f3()`. We know that if a member function is declared without `virtual` and with `final`, it means that it already override a virtual function in base class. In this case, the key word `override` is redundant.

3. Compare `f4()` and `f5()`. We know that if a member function is declared with `virtual`and if it is not the *first* virtual function in inheritance hierarchy, then we should use `override` to specify the override relationship. Otherwise, we may accidentally add new virtual function in derived class.

4. Compare `f1()` and `f7()`. We know that any member function, not just virtual ones, can be overridden in derived class. What `virtual` specifies is *polymorphism*, which means the decision as to which function to run is delayed until run time instead of compile time. (This should be avoid in practice.)

5. Compare `f7()` and `f8()`. We know that we can even override a base class function and make it a new virtual one. (Which means any member function `f8()` of class derived from `D` will be virtual.) (This should be avoid in practice too.)

6. Compare `f7()` and `f9()`. We know that `override` can help us find the error when we want to override a virtual function in derived class while forgot to add key word `virtual` in base class.

**In conclusion**, the best practice in my own view is:

  - *only* use `virtual` in declaration of the *first* virtual function in base class;
  - always use `override` to specify override virtual function in derived class, unless `final` is also specified.
